---
layout: post
title:  "Crucible"
date:   2015-02-09 00:41:00
categories: Minecraft
---

As of today, [Crucible](https://github.com/mrmakeit/Crucible) is ready for the
public! And by that I mean a version that may or may not be usable for you is
out there.  Definitely alpha material.

Those outside my close circle of friends may not know what Crucible is.
Bsically, it's a Minecraft profile editor.  This means it can install modpacks
without requiring you to login or use a special launcher to run the packs.  By
installing to a .minecraft location, and using the launchers built-in profiles,
we avoid the need for anything other than the official launcher.  No passwords,
no questionable minecraft.jar downloads, and no need to log back in to the main
launcher when you just want to try the lastest version.

Unlike other launchers (except skcraft), Crucible has an open modpack release
system.  While I hope to include Public packs in the future, you will always be
able to use your own privatly hosted packs.  As such, there is no need to file
big and boring forms, or be limited on how many packs you can release.  Just
host the files and a pack.json file, and boom! You have your very own private
mod pack.

Since none of the private packs are regulated, I feel it nessecary to lay down
some guidelines for what you use, and how to handle licence issues. To do that,
I've seperated the packs into 3 catagories

Public
----
Public packs are hosted and supported by Crucible directly.  These will require
heavy scrutiny to make sure they comply with mod licences.  As these will be
more or less endorsed by Crucible, we have to check this stuff.  That also
means we'll try and help sort out licence issues.

Private
----
Private packs are any pack made avalible for anyone to use, but are not hosted 
directly by Crucible.  Anyone can make one of these.  Since we do not control 
these packs, pack authors will be required to handle licences themselves.  We
cannot be held responsible for the contents of these packs, and mod authors
should contact the pack authors if they feel their mod licence is being violated.

Server
----
Server packs are tied to a particular server, and are not intended for use
beyond that server or set of servers.  Again, anyone can make one of these. The
licence issues should follow the same rules as for Private packs, as the only
real difference is the intended audiance.


Hopefully this article will help explain what Crucible is, where it's headed,
and how it may (or may not) impact mod authors and pack authors.  
Feel free to post issues to the [Github
Tracker](https://github.com/mrmakeit/Crucible/issues) and leave comments on
[GPlus](https://plus.google.com/103019962147079506840/posts/2VCv2UammRJ)
